now during the Hamas Terror attacks on
October 7th the group killed and
kidnapped not only Israelis but people
of other nationalities as well the
biggest group of foreign Nationals was
from Thailand most of them had been
working on the farms near the border
with Gaza officials say that eight Thai
migrants workers were being held hostage
many of them come from Northeast of
Thailand DW's G Mattis traveled there to
speak with survivors and families still
waiting for their loved ones to be free
just a few cenet take up a whole hour
making carpets with the neighbors helps
Kami lamow pass the time sick with worry
lamow hasn't been able to work since
Hamas terrorists kidnapped her son more
than 140 days ago the only visitors to
her tailor shop these days are local
officials inquiring about her
situation it's a lot of pressure I can't
rest I can't eat I think about my son
all the time I'm constantly wondering
how he is I was told that they only get
a blanket and I'm sure they don't sleep
because they're so
anxious like many ties her eldest son
was in Israel working for a farmer the
€1,000 he earned a month helped the
family back home Kami lamow bought this
tractor for the family farm with the
money her son sent she says he continued
working in e
despite knowing it was
dangerous he's actually experienced a
similar situation before two people were
killed right in front of him when they
were hiding in the shelter during
another
attack I told him to come back but he
said it was normal
there in the neighboring Village this
family is reunited anusa Angel was
released after 50 days of captivity the
money he earned from four years working
in Israel helped him buy a house and set
up a chicken farm but he says he will
never forget the morning of October
7th they put us in an empty house for
about an hour initially and then moved
us to the
tunnels they hurt us badly especially in
the first two to three
days we were only given bread and water
just enough to survive I counted the
days by meals otherwise we just lay on
the ground and
slept these are the other tie workers he
was held hostage with on the day of
their release one of them is from the
same Village as Kami Low's son talking
to his mother gives her hope that the
most dangerous part may already be
behind
him on the day of the kidnapping there
were a total of five th workers who were
taken captive but the car could only fit
four more people
so they executed one right there led by
better wages than they can get at home
tens of thousands of tha Nationals
especially from this remote region work
in Israel they're able to do so because
of an agreement between the two
countries but officials like the town
mayor feel the government should do more
to protect
citizens it's my personal opinion it is
up to the individual where they want to
go they are the ones who take a risk and
the ones who benefit from
it but the government should provide
adequate information about risk zones so
that people can make an informed
decision the labor agreement with Israel
has been suspended for the time being
many people here would now rather go to
Taiwan or South Korea for work kamiam
now says she wants her son to stay in
Thailand when he finally returns she
bought some cattle and land for him the
rise in these fields will be ripe in
about a month she hopes he'll be back
home in time for the
Harvest tww Asia Pacific bureau chief
goog Mattis who filed that report for us
also spoke with Thai politician aren
uten he spoke directly with Hamas and
took the lead in the negotiation process
that led to the release of 23 Thai
hostages in November now UT raisen said
that the release of Thai hostages still
held by Hamas is linked to the end of
Israeli air strikes on
Gaza why is it so difficult to get the
remaining Thai hostages in Israel set
free after the release Tai workers left
Israel they were wearing t-shirts
featuring Israeli
symbols this allowed Israel to claim
that they secured the release of the
hostages
moreover one of the 23 released hostages
condemned her mass in an interview with
the
media so when it saw the interview Iran
later asked us why one of the released
Tha hostages said that he was tortured
by
Hamas they claimed this was not
true because of his interviews whether
we choose to believe him or not I expect
that talks for the release of the
remaining hostages will become more
challenging so you would say the fact
that Tha hostages that were released
spoke out about their treatment at the
hands of Hamas that had a negative
impact on the current
negotiations one of the former hostages
spoke in a negative way and then Hamas
also questioned why the released
hostages didn't leave via Egypt why did
they stay in Israel for a week so they
were unsure if the hostages really spoke
for
themselves so should thae hostages that
were released lie about how they were
treated actually by
Hamas it would be best if a released
hostages would talk about their release
in a positive way so that it would be
beneficial for the remaining
hostages they should say things that
will help for eight remaining hostages
be released more easily if you can Hass
you frustrate them how can you expect
that they will release for eight
remaining hostages I think it would be
good if the released hostages said
things that would help for others to be
released you have been negotiating
directly with Hamas in Iran what is your
recommendation to the Thai government
what should happen next to get the
remaining hostages
free
I believe the Tha government should call
on Israel to stop the bombing for a
week or at least for a few
days this would allow the negotiations
to begin however Thailand has remained
quiet and do not try to make Hamas
understand our position
better we should make it clear that we
don't side with
Israel because now it has become really
difficult to free the in
hostages that is unless the Thai
government clearly communicates with
Israel to stop the bombing as requested
by Hamas so that talks can
commence so you would say the
historically good relationship between
Thailand and Iran is reason for hope
that the remaining hostages will be
freed
soon certainly negotiations can proceed
only if a current bombardment
stops right now there will be no
negotiations like
this if a bombardment stops however they
will release for remaining hostages just
like they did last time it's clear that
the Thai people are not their enemy so
they don't need to keep them as hostages
but how can they release them now the
bombs are a threat to the
hostages and we head out to Jakarta
where we speak with DW Asia Pacific
Chief gor Mattis who filed that report
for us so G I mean pretty intense
situation for those families there how
are ties whose loved ones are still held
hostage by Hamas
coping I think one of the biggest
problems they face at the moment is
uncertainty because a lot of those
relatives told me it's very difficult
for them to to obtain any sort of
information all they are told by T
authorities is to sit and wait and that
may have something to do with the
general situation that there is not much
information or there is confusing
information so I had the chance to talk
to one of the key negotiators who was
involved in the in freeing the last
group of hostages and he said there's
now reports that Hamas denies that those
eight people are in their hands and he
says that may be a sign that they have
been abducted by another group or that
uh the fact that they are still abducted
is simply denied so there's a lot of
uncertainty here and of course for those
families these are all unsettling facts
tell us about the impact that you see
the abductions have had on Thai Society
more broadly as
well well all of this obviously came as
a huge shock for for Thailand uh 39
people dead almost the same number five
people less abducted at least these are
the official numbers and and of course
this sheds a lot of light on the fact
that there are these huge numbers of
Migrant workers some 30,000 who have
gone to Israel now the question or the
debate that has started it is why are
people taking opportunity over security
why are they taking those risks and and
the answer is at least that is what the
head of the labor department in urani in
this Northeastern Province told me is
that simply they make a lot of money and
uh they make up to five times what they
can earn at home um and how you can
address that and how how you can offer
Alternatives is very difficult because I
said for instance maybe education is the
answer for that region but then I was
told even academics are going abroad to
Korea to Israel to Taiwan because there
is this deal with these countries and
they make so much money Thai officials
say that they were involved in
negotiating uh the negotiating process
that led to the release of a number of
Thai hostages back in November is
Thailand still making efforts for the
release of the Thai hostages still held
in Hamas I mean what what sort of role
are they playing in in all of these
negotiations that are
ongoing yeah the foreign Ministry has
just announced that efforts are made to
push uh for their release uh now the
person who has been involved tightly in
those negotiations in the past told me
at the moment there is no contact and
and he also told me that Hamas actually
made no demands or requests uh to
release um the the hostages in the past
however the foreign Ministry in Thailand
has now announced that uh it appears
that a ceasefire has become a
precondition or a demand uh for further
talks so no talks taking place at this
moment DW Asia Pacific bureau chief G
Mattis thank
you